In the play, Romeo and Juliet by William Shakespeare, 
a young couple fall in love even though their houses have feuded for decades. 
The play starts with Romeo in love with a girl who we never meet, Rosalind. 
Romeo is head over heels in love with her even though it is unrequited. 
Romeo is convinced to attend a costume party hosted by the Capulets, a sworn enemy to Romeo's family, 
in costume. Once there he sees Juliet and completely forgets about Rosalind or anyone else
as does she forget about anyone but Romeo. 
They fall in love and are saddened by the fact that their love is forbidden but decide to get married anyways
but through a series of tragic events most of the cast including them die.

One pivotal phrase used by William Shakspeare in Romeo and Juliet, said by Tybalt and Capulet at the party, is
“[to servingman]Fetch me my rapier, boy
…Uncle, this is a montegue, our foe, 
A villain that is hither come in spite to scorn at our solemnity this night…[Capulet, to Tybalt]
Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone” (Act 1, sc v, lines 61-63). 
This phrase serves to show that the older generations of the families 
are ready to let go of the feud and do not any longer see merit in fighting this never ending fight 
while the younger generations, excluding Romeo and Juliet, are very serious 
in their hatred towards the other and would not only continue the cycle if given the chance.
it's even clear that they are really out for blood as in this scene Tybalt asks for his sword
as to fight Romeo in the middle of a party.
    Another pivotal phrase in Romeo and Juliet is said by the Friars in regard to the letter Romeo needed about Juliet's non-death
“Who bore my letter, then, to Romeo? 
I could not send it - here it is again - nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
So fearful were they of infection” 
(Act 5, sc ii, lines 13-16). This phrase
serves to show that the letter detailing the Friar’s plan about Romeo and Juliet
never reached Romeo after his exile and the only news he would receive would be that she was dead. 
This was very pivital to the plot because it causes not only Romeo’s death when Romeo learns this news
he decides he cannot live in a world without Juliet it also kills the entire Montegue and Capulet bloodlines.
As Juliet woke to the death of Romeo and took her own life with her beloved’s blade.
In conclusion, William Shakespeare uses pivotal phrases to express tragedy and drama. 
The first quote I mentioned was a moment of very high tension and is very dramatic in the story, 
depending on how that scene plays out it affects the story greatly. 
The second quote I presented was very tragic even if it doesn’t feel that way immediately
because it sets in motion the deaths of Romeo and Juliet and the overall ending of the story.














































































